https://consensys.github.io/smart-contract-best-practices/

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Commitment_scheme

The convenience functions assert and require can be used to check for conditions and throw an exception if the condition is not met.

The assert function should only be used to test for internal errors, and to check invariants.

The require function should be used to ensure valid conditions, such as inputs, or contract state variables are met, or to validate return values from calls to external contracts. *

Interfaces also have limitations such as not being able to access storage or inherit from other interfaces which generally makes abstract contracts more practical. 

Additionally, it is important to keep in mind that if a contract inherits from an abstract contract it must implement all non-implemented functions via overriding or it will be abstract as well.

Since the fallback functions is not only called for plain ether transfers (without data) but also when no other function matches

Something that might not be obvious: The payable modifier only applies to calls from external contracts. If I call a non-payable function in the payable function in the same contract, the non-payable function won't fail, though msg.value is still set

Default visibility is public // bad

An event is a convenient way to log something that happened in the contract. Events that were emitted stay in the blockchain along with the other contract data and they are available for future audit.

You should use msg.sender for authorization (if another contract calls your contract msg.sender will be the address of the contract and not the address of the user who called the contract).

SOFR

this refers to the instance of the contract where the call is made (you can have multiple instances of the same contract).

address(this) refers to the address of the instance of the contract where the call is being made.

msg.sender refers to the address where the contract is being called from.

Therefore, address(this) and msg.sender are two unique addresses, the first referring to the address of the contract instance and the second referring to the address where the contract call originated from.

Every account in Ethereum has an address. Contracts are special kinds of accounts and have their own addresses different from msg.sender and this.owner.

The contract's address is determined by the account that created it and its nonce. So if you create a new contract from address1 you can know in advance what’s the address of your new contract e.g. with this Solidity code: address(keccak256(0xd6, 0x94, address1, currentNonce)). You can find more details in this answer How is the address of an Ethereum contract computed?